# Discussion

While the central aspect of this work was computational, it also had an enzymological and biocatalytic background. In the meetings with many project partners, it became clear that initial rate analysis is most common and seldom questioned. But initial rate analysis has some underlying problems that make reproducing results and reanalysis of the data difficult. For example, there are no conventions on which reaction period has to be taken to calculate the initial rates. The two methods encountered during this work were, first, by taking the beginning, from the start of the reaction until some arbitrary time-point, ranging from only a few seconds up to 20 minutes. And second, to record the time-course data that might start with a lag phase and choose a linear part of arbitrary length with a sense of proportion. These choices are often not reported but can strongly influence the modelling results that might follow. Aside from not stating the interval from which the initial rates are calculated, information on the method to calculate the initial rates is often missing. Most partners work with Excel. If they have time-course data, they often use linear regression. But sometimes, their experimental setup only yields two or even just one data point, and the initial rates are calculated from these. Furthermore, initial rates always come with information loss. As a result, it is impossible to conclude the time-course from initial rates, and a lag phase, in the beginning, won’t find any attention. Jupyter Notebooks accompanying papers can mitigate these problems by documenting the whole calculation process. It’s recommended to start with visualisation to give readers an impression of the data before any calculations. The EnzymeML format encourages users to report all their raw data, making reanalysis possible. 

_What makes the combination of EnzymeML and Jupyter Notebooks a FAIR way to model and report data?_

First, EnzymeML documents and Jupyter Notebooks can be published on Zenodo or in a DataVerse to get a DOI or uploaded to GitHub. There they are findable and accessable. Adding additional files to an EnzymeML document, such as a Jupyter Notebook, is also possible. For instance, DataVerses can be searched for specific metadata of EnzymeML documents. This way, one can easily find all relevant documents for a particular enzyme or reaction.

Jupyter Notebooks can be used interoperable with other tools. For example, it is possible to start an analysis in a Jupyter Notebook and then move one to another software and maybe come back to the Jupyter Notebook at a later point. The steps outside the Jupyter Notebook can be described in Markdown cells. This Jupyter Notebook can still convey the whole analysis process. Jupyter Notebooks can also be part of a more extensive workflow, described in a workflow language, but this was not part of this work. Since a Jupyter Notebook is a coding environment, many different modelling tools can be run inside, such as COPASI and PySCeS. 

As part of a well-developed infrastructure (TODO Figure), Jupyter Notebooks are easily reusable. Aside from writing and running a Jupyter Notebook on a local computer, they can be shared and run online. For example, in this report’s website version, all Jupyter Notebooks can be opened in Binder with just two clicks. It becomes more and more common practice for developers in research to share Jupyter Notebooks over Google Collaboratory. Some project partners also did this. With Binder and Google Collaboratory, Jupyter Notebooks can be run independently of ones own operating system. One of the biggest strengths is that no proprietary software is needed. Many project partners used proprietary software such as OriginPro and SigmaPlot for modelling. Aside from the obvious problem that others, not possessing it, first have to find alternative software to reproduce results, different software is often needed for additional steps of the modelling process. Those software programs usually don’t have a consistent file format and can’t read or write EnzymeML or Excel files. Therefore interim results, such as initial rates, have to be copy-pasted, which is error-prone.